 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 Written Comments to the  
U.S. Government Interagency Trade Policy Staff Committee  
In Response to Federal Register Notice Regarding China’s Compliance with 
its Accession Commitments to the World Trade Organization (WTO)  
 
Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
Informati on Technology Industry Council  
Semic onductor Industry Association  
Software & I nformation Industry Association  
Telecommunications Industry  Association  
 
  
USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   2 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
  
I. INTRODUCTION  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................  3 
A. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY :................................ ................................ ................................ .........................  3 
II. CHINA’S “INDIGENOUS INNOVATION” POLICIES  ................................ ................................ .. 7 
A. ANTI-MONOPOLY LAW ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  7 
B. PROCUREMENT POLICIES  ................................ ................................ ................................ .....................  8 
C. INTEGRATED CIRCUIT (IC)  INDUSTRY SUPPORT MEASURES  ................................ ...........................  8 
III. INTELLECTUAL PROPERT Y RIGHTS  ................................ ................................ .......................  9 
A. ENFORCEMENT ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 10 
B. SEMICONDUCTOR COUNTERFEITS  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 11 
C. POLICY ISSUES  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 12 
IV. MARKET ACCESS AND TE CHNICAL BARRIERS TO TRADE  ................................ ............  15 
A. TECHNOLOGY LICENSING  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  15 
B. TECHNICAL STANDARDS  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  16 
C. CUSTOMS VALUATION  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  18 
D. CUSTOMS RELATED POLICY ISSUES  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 19 
E. CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT AND TYPE APPROVAL  ................................ ................................ .........  21 
F. CYBER SECURITY /INFORMATION SECURITY POLICIES  ................................ ................................ ... 24 
V. NATIONAL TREATMENT  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  28 
A. GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT MEASURES FAVORING LOCAL CONTENT  ................................ ...... 28 
B. PUBLIC PROCUREMENT TIED TO DOMESTI C IP ................................ ................................ ..............  28 
C. GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  29 
D. TRANSPARENCY  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ . 30 
E. ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS  ................................ . 31 
VI. COMMUNICATIONS & INF ORMATION SERVICES  ................................ .............................  34 
A. IMPEDIMENTS TO MARKET ACCESS  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 34 
B. TECHNOLOGY NEUTRALITY VS . MANDATED STANDARDS  ................................ ..............................  41 
APPENDIX: USITO INTR ODUCTION  ................................ ................................ ................................  43 
 
 
 
  USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   3 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 I. INTRODUCTION  
We are pleased to have this opportunity to provide input to the Interagency Trade 
Policy Staff Committee’s annual assessment of China’s World Trade Organization (WTO) 
compliance. The review provides USITO and its members an effective means to 
recognize are as where progress has been made,  raise issues of concern , and suggest 
approaches to resolve areas of disagreement with China’s government over 
implementation of its WTO commitments . 
A. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY : 
China’s Indigenous Innovation Poli cies:  China’s drive  to promote “indigenous 
innovation” is embodied in numerous  industrial policies and measures that 
systematically favor products and services of Chinese companies over those of foreign 
companies. These include the  development of national standards that favor  domestic 
technologies,  industrial policy driven by the implementation of the Anti-Monopoly Law , 
conformity assessment  regimes  that can be arbitrarily applied to delay the approval of 
foreign products, and overt local favoritism in  government and state -own ed enterprise 
procurement . Many of these regulations and standards continue to hinder China’s 
efforts to join the WTO Government Procurement Agreement (GPA)  and appear to run 
counter to China’s  transition to a “market driven” economy , as proclaimed at the 3rd 
Plenum of the 18th Communist Party  Congress  of the China Central Committee in 
November 2013 .  
Intellectual Property Rights:   Despite expanded efforts in the past years to deal with 
Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) problems, including the Special IPR Campaign , 
establishment of the State Council IPR Office , and repeated acknowledgement by senior 
Chinese leadership that IPR problems continue to create trade disputes and stunt 
economic growth, piracy and counterfeiting at the wholesale and retail level, a nd over 
the Internet, remain high due to inadequate penalties, uncoordinated enforcement 
among local, provincial, and national authorities, and the lack of transparency in China’s 
administrative and criminal enforcement system , as well as lack of oversight  of supply 
chain management among state -owned enterprises.  
Technology Licensing :  USITO companies continue to be concerned about governmental 
interference in licensing agreements. The Chinese government has publicly a rticulated a 
policy to limit royalties for patented technologies paid to foreign companies and to 
promote the domestic development of essential intellectual property.  The State 
Intellectual Property Office (SIPO) has also issued a proposed draft regulation on the 
remuneration of employees’ inve ntions that could interfere with contracts for 
compensation for patents filed by employees of multinational companies . During the 
2004 JCCT, China agreed not to interfere in licensing nego tiations between standards 
implementers and the owners of “essential ” patents or other IPR  standard s, but has not 
confirmed that it will uphold this commitment. China also agreed not to adopt policies 
that would interfere with l icensing negotiation . USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   4 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 Technical Standards Setting:   China is aggressively implementing and utilizing technical 
standards to support development of key industries , especially the ICT industry . 
Challenges for USITO members include China’s development of indigenous standards 
that (i)  aim to  displace global sta ndards  when mandated , (ii) create significant 
interoperability issues because they possess  important diversions  from global standards, 
(iii) lack sufficient safeguards to protect the IP at issue in standards -setting  activities , 
and (iv) are developed witho ut adequate transparency and participation rights for 
foreign companies. Chinese regulators and standards development organizations’ lack 
of adherence to the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT Agreement) Code of 
Good Practice, both from the pers pective of content of technical standards and 
notifications to the TBT Agreement, presents significant challenges for foreign industry.  
USITO advocates for the adoption of open technical standards that promote innovation 
and global interoperability, for in creased openness and transparency in Chinese 
standards development organizations, and for the adoption of global standards by 
relevant Chinese authorities that remain voluntary once implemented locally . 
Industry has observed repeated instances of China’s s tandards authorities implementing 
standards that favour  domestic technologies and were developed without full 
opportunity for participation from relevant stakeholders (including foreign ICT 
companies). Additionally, China’s National Standards Law only reco gnizes the validity of 
some  global  standards bodies, and excludes  important  organizations such as the 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers  (IEEE ) even though they satisfy relevant 
WTO criteria . Furthermore, voluntary standards often are  made mandatory through 
various administrative measures , and  without sufficient notice to foreign  companies.  In 
addition, the  latest  trend of the standards reform is unclear  regarding  treatment of 
consortia standard -setting rights, particularly those not a ffiliated with government 
agencies . We believe that giving all consortia equal rights in  standard -setting  will 
encourage innovation.  
Customs Valuation:   USITO continues to be informed of situations not in agreement 
with the WTO Customs Valuation Agreement.  Of primary concern is China Customs 
questioning transaction value and instead utilizing valuation databases with reference  
prices. Customs  authorities do not appear to understand transfer pricing, inbound and 
outbound bonded zone valuation, and customer r ebate/sales discounts associated with 
today’s supply chain complexity. Inconsistent treatment among ports is also prevalent , 
as well as preference for verbal agreements instead of issuing written , binding rulings. In 
addition, the valuation of “used equipm ent” is unfair when Chinese Customs tends to 
request a minimum residual value for tariff purposes and disagrees with book values 
submitted by importers. USITO recommends that China pursue Customs modernization 
efforts as outlined below , which are consistent with those of other WTO members.   
Conformity Assessment & Type Approval:  China’s current type approval process for 
telecommunications equipment is not sufficiently transparent and stipulates 
burdensome, non -technology  neutral testin g and conformity assessment requirements  
that require the submission of unnecessary confidential business information . Through USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   5 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 the JCCT and other channels, industry has advocated for transparent requirements, 
simplification and consolidation of redundant t ests, shortening of testing periods , and 
elimination of unnecessary functionality tests. Industry strongly advocates for  Ministry 
of Industry and Information Technology  (MIIT ) and other relevant authorities to 
streamline its type approval process to one ce rtification process, combining the 
Network Access License ( NAL), Radio Type Approval ( RTA), and China Compulsory 
Certification ( CCC) processes, and to publish and maintain on the Internet an easily 
accessible  list of testing requirements and specifications . Considering Chinese 
conformity assessment practices more broadly, China should have the burden to justify 
why its requirements such as source code disclosures are essential to prove conformity, 
and provide both a prompt appeal process and adequate proced ures to protect any 
confidential information that is submitted.  
Information & Cyber Security:   There continue to be a  number of cyber  security and 
information security  related areas in which China’s policies create challenges for USITO 
member companies, es pecially for commercial and non -sensitive government  sector 
market access for ICT products. This includes polic ies for product certification, 
encryption, and critical information infrastructure protection (CIIP). China’s distrust of 
foreign technologies and governments often gives rise to unilateral approaches and 
exclusionary policies to increase utilization of  indigenous technology. Such policies are  
exacerbated by  the unclear distinction in China between commercial and government 
information systems  and between information security and national security related 
concerns. Additionally,  certain  domestic stakeholders  seek to benefit from market 
opportunities that might arise at the expense of foreign competitors , forming a strong 
constituency advocating for adoption by the PRC government of discriminatory policies.  
Government Procurement:   From  environmental protecti on to energy efficiency to 
information security, wide -rang ing policies have increased the administrative burden on 
companies participating in government procurement. Some of these policies preclude 
foreign companies from participating in certain bids or Re quests for Proposals (RFPs). In 
the meantime, China’s progress towards WTO GPA accession has been very slow , and 
key concepts – such as the definition of domestic products – have not yet been made 
publically available .  
China’s  December 201 2 offer  still excluded state -owned enterprises and lower -level 
government departments, a critical shortcoming that , along with other broad 
exemptions it is proposing,  needs to be addressed. USITO advocates clear and steady 
improvements in government procurement policy, bu ilding toward meaningful 
accession to the GPA as soon as possible.  
Environmental Standards and Compliance Regulations:  China’s energy efficiency 
programs present a number of challenges to foreign companies, including standards 
that deviate from global sta ndards, mandatory labeling requirements, and energy 
efficiency requirements related to government procurement and market access. While 
many of these policies are well intentioned , China’s burgeoning programs for recycling 
and environmental protection , such as China WEEE and RoHS, have raised concerns USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   6 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 about transparency and undue complexity  to increase administrative burden s and delay 
the time to market due to conformity assessment . In 2015, China WEEE was broadened 
to include mobile phones and other p roduct categories, expanding the scope of affected 
products, while China RoHS released an updated draft version that fails to address key 
industry concerns.  
Communications & Internet Services:  Since  China's WTO accession, some aspects of 
China’s communic ations services regulations have improved , while others remain highly 
restrictive to foreign enterprises. China should continue to harmonize its regulations 
with international norms in this area, including its Telecom Law , Telecom Services 
Categories Catal ogue, and the Administrative Measures for the Pilot Operation of New -
Types of Telecom Services,  all of which are under revision without clear timelines.  
The dr aft revis ion of China's Internet Information Services Administrative Measures  
released in June 20 12 poses market access barriers for global Internet services 
companies. The proposed revisions to the Measures clarify internet regulatory roles and 
responsibilities of different government agencies, continue to classify internet services 
as a telecom -value added service, and also contain numerous requirements and 
provisions for national security lawful access, data retention, data privacy, content 
filtering, and real -name ID registration requirements . USITO urges the Chinese 
government to avoid country -specific regulation s relating to the creation, release, and 
transmission of certain types of content , and cautions that such regulations  constitute 
trade barriers for global Internet services companies. In addition, the  proposed rules run 
counter t o the global nature of the Internet .  
China’s increased controls over the Internet are creating barriers to the cross -border 
flow of data and the ability of companies to operate in China. In a globalized economy, 
companies across all sectors rely on the In ternet to transmit and receive data to operate 
and serve their customers  – and this will no doubt be a critical factor  for Chinese 
companies that are expanding globally as well.  The Internet Plus strategy announced by 
the Chinese government earlier this y ear rightfully puts important emphasis on 
developing e -commerce.  However, China’s ever -tightening Internet controls will only 
make that goal harder to achieve.  
Cloud Market Access:  Cloud computing, despite being identified as an area of strategic 
developm ent in China, remains largely off limits to foreign ICT companies, due to a 
number of policy challenges, including equity caps, investment restrictions, and market 
entry barriers. In September 2014, the China National Information Security Standards 
Technic al Committee (TC260) approved and formally released two standards that are 
designed to establish a security framework for public sector cloud computing 
deployments in Chi na. These standards are likely  to become mandatory for government 
procurement, along w ith critical infrastructure systems under the Multi -level Protection 
Scheme regime. USITO recommends that the Chinese government provide greater 
clarity an d participation regarding standards and regulations related to cloud computing. 
China’s deployment of  cloud computing technologies will be better facilitated by USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   7 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 adopting global standards and policies that reflect the international and borderless 
nature of this emerging industry.  
China has made numerous bilateral and multilateral commitments to provide for eign 
enterprises with fair and equitable participation in the development of strategic 
emerging industrie s (SEIs) . This includes cloud computing and the development of SEI 
policies in a manner compliant with WTO obligations. USITO recommends that the 
Chine se government fulfill these commitments in an expeditious manner, removing 
investment and other restrictions that prevent foreign investment in cloud computing in 
China.  
II. CHINA ’S “INDIGENOUS INNOVATION ” POLICIES  
China’s drive  to promote “indigenous innovat ion” is embodied in numerous  industrial 
policies and measures that systematically favor products and services of Chinese 
companies over those of foreign companies. These include the  development of national 
standards that favo r domestic technologies,  massiv e efforts to support domestic players 
in the integrated circuit industry, conformity assessment  regimes  that can be arbitrarily 
applied to delay the approval of foreign products, and local favoritism in  government 
procurement .  
A. ANTI-MONOPOLY LAW 
USITO is concerned  that, amid accelerating government agency  campaigns to promote 
domestic champions, Chinese antitrust enforcers have increasingly turned their sights 
on foreign companies with a flurry of recent investigations launched under the China 
Anti-Monopol y Law  (AML).  While the Chinese leadership continues to pledge that the 
market will play a “decisive” role in China’s economy, government actions continue to 
advance industrial policies in a coordinated manner.   
One example of this trend is China’s use of the AML as an industrial policy tool, which 
could affect a range of U.S. companies.   National Development Reform Commission 
(NDRC) officials have been publicly outspoken about the important role that industrial 
policy considerations should play in antitrus t enforcement in China and their intention 
to broaden significantly the scope of their review of competitive practices in a wide 
range of “strategic sectors,” including automobiles, telecommunications, banking and 
petroleum.  
Indeed, China has used the AML to prevent undue concentrations of market power, 
combat cartels and abuse of market dominance, and pursue other goals that enhance 
the overall competitive environment in China.   However, in many cases involving foreign 
companies, China’s anti -monopoly enfo rcement agencies have skewed implementation 
of the AML and related statutes to support China’s industrial policy goals, including 
through discrimination and protectionism.   USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   8 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 The Chinese companies that benefit from these policies are often national champions  in 
industries that China considers strategic, such as commodities and high -technology. 
Through the AML, China seeks to strengthen such companies and, in apparent disregard 
of the AML, encourages them to consolidate market power, contrary to the normal 
purpose of competition law. By contrast, the companies that suffer are 
disproportionately foreign.   In fact, all transactions blocked or conditionally approved by 
MOFCOM to date have involved foreign companies, and the curtailment of IP rights 
appears designe d to strengthen the bargaining position of domestic licensees.  
According to a high -ranked official, China aims to  fortify AML enforcement in 
preparation for  implementation of the forthcoming US -China Bilateral Investment 
Treaty and negative list system.  
B. PROCUREMENT POLICIES  
USITO also remains concerned with the implementation of China’s 12th Five Year Plan 
(FYP) , which  includes efforts  to bolster seven strategic emerging industries, including 
next generation information technology (IT)  such as semiconduc tors. While “indigenous 
innovation”  product catalogues are not part of the policy portfolio supporting 
development of strategic emerging industries, t he FYP gives officials the impetus to put 
forward preferential tax, fiscal, and procurement policies to su pport these industries 
and indicates the importance the Chinese government places on these sectors.  In the 
same vein, policies on information security , telecommunications standards, and other 
areas often facilitate, or even encourage, discriminatory treatm ent of foreign 
technology.   
USITO is concerned that  MIIT and other agencies directly involved in the regulation of 
the ICT industry in China  continue to  utilize non -market, non-technology  neutral 
regulatory approaches to encourage domestic industrial development. This not only 
creates a burdensome regulatory and trade environment, but also stifles innovation 
domestically.  
USITO urges the Chinese government to encourage an environment that enhances 
opportunit ies for innovation in China, including the promotion of non -discriminatory 
and merit -based procurement and full and open com petition in the Chinese market. 
This entails winning commitment s from the h ighest levels of Chinese government to 
create an equitabl e environment for the operation of foreign businesses in China and 
enable foreign businesses to enjo y national treatment . USITO commends U.S. 
government  efforts on this issue and supports the continuation of the Innovation 
Dialogue, created in 2010 to faci litate continued dialogue between both government 
officials and innovation experts from industry and academia on innovation policy best 
practices.  
C. INTEGRATED CIRCUIT  (IC)  INDUSTRY SUPPORT MEASURES  USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   9 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 Recent developments signal that China is prioritizing the development of an indigenous 
Chinese IC industry. On June 24, 2014, MIIT and three other central government bodies 
published the “Guidelines to Promote National IC Industry Development,” a central 
government document outlining aggressive measures to suppor t “leapfrog”  growth in 
China’s IC industry. Among other more specific objectives, the policy calls for China to 
transform itself into a “leading IC country” by 2030 in all key market segments.    
The central government recently  confirmed the establishment of a 1 38 billion RMB 
central government equity investment fund that will be deployed  in the IC industry  over 
the coming ten (10)  years .  In addition, there  are more than two dozen regional or 
provincial  equity investment funds that have been established to  fund China’s 
acquisition of IC companies and technology.  Some of these funds are already active, 
proposing billion -dollar acquisitions of US and foreign IC companies.  
Thus far, the policy has been developed and implemented  in a manner that lacks 
transpar ency. T here is widespread concern that the combined effect of the central and 
regional government funds could prove disruptive to the global IC market , unfairly 
propping up Chinese companies and potentially leading to overcapacity .    
USITO urges the Chinese government to embrace an open and transparent process that 
enables foreign governments and industry to provide input on all elements of the new 
plan and the IC investment fund s before they are  fully implemented . In addition, USITO 
calls upon the Chinese government  to ensure that the plan and IC investment fund s, at 
the central and regional levels,  are compatible and fully in line with China’s  
commitments to the World Trade Organization (WTO), APEC, and the World 
Semiconductor Council Government/Auth orities Meeting on Semiconductors (GAMS), 
among other forums.  
III. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS  
China’s Central Government has  taken a number of steps to  reinforce the importance of 
sound IP protection policy and enforcement , including the passage of improved 
intellectual property laws and regulations in the areas of copyright, patents, 
semiconductor masks, trademarks (including domain names), and business proprietary 
information.  
However, d espite positive rhetoric and high -level policies, IPR protection remai ns a 
serious concern for our member companies, particularly in the areas of enforcement, 
anti-piracy a nd anti -counterfeit efforts, as well as in  the treatment of patents in 
standards, conformity assessment regimes, and China’s patent registration and 
prote ction system.  At provincial and local government levels , there remains a  lack of 
consistent and effective measures to protect IP.  
Piracy  and counterfeiting at the wholesale and retail level, and over the Internet, remain 
at significant levels due to inadeq uate penalties, uncoordinated enforcement among 
local, provincial, and national authorities, and the lack of transparency in China’s USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   10 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 administrative and criminal enforcement system. Indeed, the appropriation of IP in 
China has occurred on such a massive sca le that it continues to influence international 
price s, disrupt supply chains, change  business models, and likely permanently alter  the 
balance between tangible and intangible values contained within commercial products.  
Closely related to these troubling IP policies is the regulatory framework emerging 
around the development of technical standards, and the protection  and disposal of IP R 
in drafting China’s standards. These policies raise serious questions about China’s WTO  
Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS ) 
commitments, which oblige signatories to protect private intellectual property rights. 
For example, the recent draft amendment to the Patent Law has included an article 
(Article 82)  requiring compulsory licensing of patents in standards in the event of non -
disclosure in the standards formulation process.  
USITO advocates for China’s implementation of transparent enforcement systems and 
clear delegation of administrative responsibility  for IPR protection, enforcement, and 
accountability, as well as government leadership  and central and local levels  in 
propagating a culture of respect and value for IPR in China.  
A. ENFORCEMENT  
Enforcement actions should be measured against  China’s commitmen ts under TRIPS to 
provide copyright owners “effective action against any act of infringement in intellectual 
property rights covered under this Agreement” (Article 41) and if the infringement 
amounts to “willful trademark counterfeiting or copyright piracy  on a commercial scale” 
to provide for criminal penalties including imprisonment and monetary fines sufficient 
to provide a deterrent to future acts of piracy (Article 61).  
Though there have been  several positive IPR enforcement developments, including the  
adjustment of thresholds and penalties for IPR infringement and cooperation of courts 
and law enforcement agencies, effective criminal or civil enforcement remains wholly 
inadequate and unreliable.    
Other promises regarding protection of IP remain unfulf illed, such as the commitment  
made at the 2006  JCCT  to ensure  use of legal software by government offices at the 
national, provincial , and local levels, and in state -owned and state -invested enterprises.  
Earlier this year , China again reaffirmed its commit ment to procure licensed software in 
central government offices and in 30 large state -owned enterprises. But despite these 
efforts, software piracy in governments and SOEs remains a significant concern. Equally 
troubling, many recent software legalization initiatives by Chinese authorities also 
contain directives for purchase of ‘indigenous’ software products . 
USITO advocates for China to take concrete steps to carry out its original 2006 
commitment, a com mitment that has been repeated each year without muc h progress , 
by purchasing and using licensed software without discriminating between Chinese and 
foreign producers and products.  USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   11 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 The current IPR environment for software suffers from slow, cumbersome, and 
ineffective enforcement, as well as insufficient p enalties and fines. USITO believes that 
adequate attention, investment , and training by enforcement agencies, including the 
Public Security Bureau (PSB) , are essential to improving the IPR environment for 
software. Although Chinese authorities have underta ken some administrative 
enforcement actions against  infringing entities, the lack of transparency with regard to 
sharing information about actions against infringers makes it impossible for rights -
holders to accurately assess the  real impact of China’s enf orcement efforts.  
Finally, the IPR provisions in the Criminal Code have not been revised since 1997, even 
after China joined the WTO in 2001, and even though other key IPR laws, including the 
Patent Law, Trademark Law, and Copyright Law, have been amended  to bring them into 
compliance with China’s TRIPs commitments. We believe the IPR provisions in the 
Criminal Code should be revised to be fully compliant with TRIPs —most importantly, to 
provide criminal penalties “that are sufficient to provide a deterrent ” (TRIPs, art. 61) 
against piracy and counterfeiting. For example, Chinese courts currently interpret the 
“for profit” requirement that exists under Article 217 of the Criminal Code in a manner 
that is significantly narrower than the “on a commercial scale ” requirement of Article 61 
of TRIPs. As a result, it is effectively impossible to obtain criminal remedies against 
corporate end user software piracy (despite the clear commercial impact and purpose of 
such piracy), hard disk loading software piracy, and online software piracy. Such 
loopholes should be fixed either by amending the IPR provisions in the Criminal Code or 
by clarifying its scope in a new judicial interpretation. Otherwise, China will continue to 
violate its obligations under Article 61 of TRI PS to provide criminal remedies “sufficient 
to provide a deterrent” to these forms of commercial -scale piracy.  
The various commitments made by the Chinese government in recen t years are 
important steps that provide  a strong basis for the Chinese government  to take concrete 
action and provide reliable information on actions to improve IP enforcement.  
B. SEMICONDUCTOR COUNTERFEITS  
Semiconductors are the “brains” behind an incredibly diverse range of end products and 
systems such as healthcare and medical equipment, communication networks, 
emergency response systems, electric power grids (including nuclear and solar power 
generation systems), industrial and automation systems, and transportation systems 
and controls. Given the criticality of these end -use products and systems, counterfeit 
semiconductors pose risks to health and safety wherever they are used worldwide.  In 
addition to c ounterfeit semiconductors creating a clear and present danger to the public, 
counterfeits also result in the loss of intellectual property for the original manufacturer.  
The sale of counterfeits erodes sales of legitimate products and causes job losses an d 
damage to world economies.  
While semiconductor companies rely on patents, copyrights, and trademarks to protect 
much of their IP, semiconductor layout design protection provides unique legal rights 
that are particularly useful in certain circumstances. T his form of protection is USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   12 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 specifically included in the TRIPS agreement as a separate category. China adopted 
regulations to protect semiconductor mask work (layout design) IP in 2001. As China’s 
market and industry continue to grow, the successful implemen tation of this law is 
increasingly  important.  
The China Semiconductor Industry Association (CSIA) is a member of the World  
Semiconductor Council (WSC)  and an active participant in the  Anti-Counterfeiting Task 
Force . Through this task force, the WSC has la id out a position on the implementation of 
national layout design laws (such as clarifying the law in light of recent improvements in 
automated design tools that allow semiconductor layout designs to be made by copying 
a protected layout design with virtua lly no intellectual effort), and measures to improve 
patent quality in the six WSC regions.1 
Data from the member companies of the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA) and 
other sources has shown that semiconductor counterfeiting is a major issue. Data  also 
suggests that China is a major source of counterfeit semiconductors that undermine the 
quality and reliability of electronics products both inside and outside of China. 
Counterfeits can be purchased openly at electronics malls in China. In January 20 14, a 
co-conspirator in a scheme to traffic counterfeit goods into the United States plead 
guilty for his role in bringing 289 shipments of counterfeit integrated circuits (ICs) from 
China.  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in the State of Maryland that handled the case found 
that the defendant imported all of the counterfeit ICs with the help of co -conspirators 
based in China.   
USITO is greatly encouraged by the ground -breaking commitments in the 24th JCCT 
deliverables to increase enforcement against counterfei t and substandard 
semiconductors and enhance cooperation on cross -border investigations.   China’s 
Customs Agency and other law enforcement and market surveillance agencies should be 
encouraged to aggressively seize counterfeit products and take actions le ading to the 
arrest of counterfeiters and counterfeit traders.  
C. POLICY ISSUES  
USITO continues to register concern about Chinese government involvement in 
discussions of compensation for intellectual property and policies that are seemingly 
designed to disad vantage non -Chinese intellectual property holders.  
 The ability of dominant (successful) companies to unilaterally and 
unconditionally refuse to license their IP should be preserved.  Article 17(b) of 
SAIC’s IP Gu idelines for Anti -Monopoly Enforcement  would prohibit an 
unconditional, unilateral refusal to license IPR when the refusal “will cause [the 
potential] licensee not to be able to compete effectively and negatively affect 
competition and innovation in the relevant market.” Among other possible 
                                                      
1 The World Semiconductor Council currently is composed of the European, Japanese, Chinese Taipei, Korean, Chinese, 
and U.S. semiconductor industries.  USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   13 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 conduct, Article 11 of the guidelines defines “negative impact to competition” as 
refusing to license IPR to “control technologies and other resources.” Chapter 6 
of China’s Patent Law also currently permits compulsory licensing when a 
patentee has failed t o sufficiently exploit the patent, without providing guidance 
as to how “sufficient exploitation” would be determined. The purpose of 
granting IP rights is to enable an IPR holder to control technology so that it can 
secure an adequate return on one’s inve stment in developing and 
commercializing the invention at issue. Indeed, Article 28 of TRIPS  makes it clear 
that the right to exclude others from the invention is fundamental to and a 
lawful and proper exercise of IPR. Some of the existing provisions in Ch apter 6 of 
China’s Patent Law do not comply with all compulsory licensing restrictions in 
Article 31 of TRIPS. For instance, Article 49 of the law permits compulsory 
licensing when it is in the “public interest” without defining those words. The 
substantiv e grounds referred to in TRIPS Article 31 which governs compulsory 
licensing are very narrow; they include “national emergencies or other 
circumstances of extreme urgency,” but not the general “public interest” recited 
in Article 49. In China, “public inte rest” might be defined very broadly. This same 
issue also is raised by Article 52 of the Patent Law, which allows compulsory 
licensing of semiconductor technology in the “public interest,” even though 
TRIPS Article 31(c) makes it clear that compulsory lice nsing “in the case of 
semiconductor technology shall only be for public non -commercial use or to 
remedy a practice determined after judicial or administrative process to be anti -
competitive.” The important and limiting term “public non -commercial use” in 
TRIPS Article 31(c) is significantly more restrictive than the “public interest.” As a 
final example, under TRIPS Article 31(h) compensation needs to be based on 
“the economic value of the authorization.” Article 57 of the Patent Law 
proscribes for an award  of “reasonable royalties” for a compulsory license grant. 
We recommend that any damages award for a compulsory license be on terms 
that make the coerced licensor whole, such as Article 65’s lost profits remedy. 
There is no rationale for a patent holder to  receive less compensation under 
Article 57 than he would under Article 65 just because, for example, his patent is 
deemed important (e.g. for public health). Rather, it is equally important, indeed 
more so, that compulsory license awards fully compensate the patent holder for 
his losses as required by Article 31(h) of TRIPS. China is in the midst of amending 
its patent law for the fourth time. We urge SIPO to use that opportunity to close 
the gaps between the  significant TRIPS restrictions on compulsory li censing and 
the Patent Law ’s compulsory licensing provisions.  
 The rights of patent pools should be narrowly construed.  We urge all of China’s 
technical committees to adopt reasonable IPR policies based on the  IPR 
guidelines vetted and  approved by  IEC/ISO  in 2011. IT Technical committees also 
should assure their members that patents they license as part of a patent pool 
for a given standard will not be considered as a commitment to license those 
patents for use in other standards , unless the individual membe rs themselves – USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   14 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 or the members of the IT standards setting body to which they belong – express 
no objection to such use . USITO advocates for adoption of fair and transparent 
FRAND principles in this new version.  
 In April 2014, the State Intellectual Proper ty Office (SIPO) released a new draft of 
its Service Invention Remuneration (SIR) Regulations . While improvements 
have been made since 2012, namely inclusion of a clause that “An entity which 
has been granted a patent can reach an agreement with the invent or(s) or 
designer(s), or stipulate in its legally formed company rules with regard to the 
form and amount of rewards and remunerations”, the proposed amendments 
continue to undercut freedom of contract and impose additional onerous terms 
to be included in the employer and employee agreements and make it unclear if 
the aforementioned regulation is superseded or not by the proposed regulations. 
Invention remuneration should be determined between the employer and 
employee and the employer and employee should b e given the flexibility to craft 
agreements that meet the needs of both parties. High uncertainty imposes an 
undue burden of compliance on employers, leaves the employer exposed to a 
risk of constant litigation, and deflects potential investors and investm ents in 
China . 
 Utility Model Patents  (UMPs) :  The low level of inventiveness and the la ck of 
substantive review for utility model patents in China create the potential for the 
emergence of a patent assertion entity problem there.2 The issuance of utility 
model patents is growing dramatically; they are quick, easy and inexpensive to 
obtain. The problem is compounded by shortcomings in the enforcement system; 
and by subsidies and quotas that encourage the filing of UMPs merely to rai se 
patent numbers regardless of quality or the innovative contribution.  We urge 
consultations with industry and other governments to investigate remedies to 
this potential problem.  Two options would be as follows: amend Article 40 of 
the Patent Law to req uest prior art search and substantial examination of UMP 
applications or revise current Patent Law Article 22.3 to raise the examination 
criteria for inventiveness for UMPs to the same level as that for invention 
patents.  
 Fourth Patent Law Amendments : Ther e are two major concerns with the draft 
fourth patent law amendments, which focus on enforcement of patents. First, 
the amendments create a greater gap between the SIPO Patent Reexamination 
Board (PRB) decision on validity and a decision by the courts or p atent 
administrative authority on infringement.  The proposed amendment in Article 
46 makes the validity decision effective as of the date of announcement and the 
proposed amendment in Article 60 requires the courts or patent administrative 
                                                      
2 Jia Lynn Yang, “Chinese firms put intellectual property lawsuits to work,” Washington Post, August 30, 2 012 available at 
http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/chinese -firms -put-intellectual -property -lawsuits -to-
work/2012/08/30/12d9a418 -f1c3-11e1 -adc6 -87dfa8eff430_story.html   USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   15 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 authority to ti mely decide the patent infringement case after the PRB decision is 
announced. This means that a decision on infringement will be handed down 
even though the relevant parties may appeal the PRB decision. As a result, the 
above amendments will very likely fo rce an infringement decision and the 
issuance of an injunction and damages award, even if the patent is later 
rendered invalid by the appellate court. Article 47 exacerbates this problem 
because it declares that if a patent right is held invalid, it will h ave no retroactive 
effect on any court or administrative decision made and enforced.  USITO 
recommends against amendments that widen the gap between determination of 
validity and infringement because this will produce unfair results and harm 
innovation.   
The second major concern is the greater power provided to administrative 
authorities on patent matters.  The administrative authorities, under the 
proposed amendment in Article 64, are granted a full range of powers to 
investigate, including inspecting and  duplicating company contracts, seizing 
products proved to “ disrupt the market order” by willful patent infringement and 
to punish willful patent infringement in accordance with the law, investigate and 
punish willful infringement, including levying puniti ve damages for willful 
infringement up to three times  the amount of actual damages.  USITO 
recommends against providing this additional authority to the administrative 
authorities as there are insufficient procedural safeguards, especially around 
copying and seizing company property and lack of clarity about what constitutes 
“willful infringement” and “disrupting the market order”.  This additional 
authority, especially without proper safeguards and training, could lead to 
frivolous actions and unfair resu lts.  
IV. MARKET ACCESS AND TECHNICAL BARRIERS TO TRADE  
A. TECHNOLOGY LICENSING  
The U.S. ICT sector continues to be concerned about governmental interference in 
licensing agreements. The Chinese government has publicly articulated a policy to limit 
royalties for patented technologies paid to foreign companies and to promote the 
domestic development of essential intellectual property. China seeks to foster the 
domestic development of innovative technologies and IPR in part through technology 
mandates or promotion o f unique national standards  that are then turned into technical 
regulations . This policy is also implemented through direct or indirect interference by 
Chinese authorities in licensing negotiations between Chinese and foreign technology 
companies. Such int erference is a dramatic departure from how business is conducted 
and technology transfer arrangements are concluded in the global market.  
MIIT has effectively precluded foreign companies that own essential IPR for third -
generation (“3G”) wireless communica tions standards from negotiating technology USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   16 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 licenses and royalty agreements directly with Chinese companies, which is the 
customary business practice globally. Rather, at the risk of being denied access to the 
Chinese market, foreign companies have been pr essured to enter into negotiations 
involving royalty rates and other licensing terms with a committee led by the China 
Academy of Information Communications Technology (CAICT) , a government institution 
subordinate to MIIT.  
These governmental practices are  inconsistent with the fundamental rights conferred by 
patent to technology owners and constitute an express vio lation, or at least nullification 
or impairment, of TRIPS patent provisions. Chinese government -imposed limitations on 
3G royalties operate as i mpermissible price controls that are not authorized under 
China’s protocol of accession to the WTO.  As China launch es 4G LTE services , USITO is 
concerned that  previous commitments of non -interference on commercial contracts 
including but not limited to roy alty negotiations, licensing agreements , and mandating 
of standards  are not being honored . 
A new area in which USITO members face challenges is in the area of technology 
licensing for information security and cryptography standards. Chinese Commercial 
Encryption Regulations require that only government -approved algorithms be adopted 
by industry, yet many of the essential IPR, technology usage, and licensing guidelines for 
these standar ds have not been made public. Foreign firms are at a disadvantage by not 
being aware of key technology licensing agreements for mandatory national standards.   
There have been no signs of any change in China’s policy on this issue since the 2004 
JCCT meeti ng, where China promised not to interfere in royalty negotiations at least for 
3G licenses. The U.S. government  should continue to press China on this matter by (i) 
clarifying that its 2004 commitment extends to all government and quasi -government 
personne l, and is not limited to “Chinese regulators” alone; and (ii) expanding that 
commitment, based on WTO requirements, so that it does not apply solely to 3G 
licenses. Chinese manufacturers should be permitted to negotiate directly with foreign 
IP holders. Ot herwise, the PRC government will continue to find ways to interfere in 
royalty negotiations.  
B. TECHNICAL STANDARDS  
We recognize the recent incremental reforms in China’s standards policies, but remain 
concern ed that China’s standards policies continue to deny  sufficient participation  from 
global industry and often result in crucial deviations from existing global standards. 
China  often mandates  standards that are developed outside of global  standard setting 
processes , and with limited consultation with ind ustry stakeholders. Furthermore, the 
implementation of ‘voluntary’ standards as ‘mandatory’ standards , often times through 
the conformity assessment process, is a significant impediment for U.S. companies’ 
growth in the China market.  These barriers continu e to lead to the significant delay in 
the introduction of cutting edge U.S. ICT products to the China market as firms are 
forced to navigate this byzantine standards process.  More importantly, a doption of both 
mandatory and voluntary  China -specific  national  and industry  standards impedes USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   17 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 innovation by restricting both the ability of Chinese companies to serve other markets 
as well as foreign importers to serve domestic markets. We strongly advocate for the 
principle of national treatment by China , so that foreign companies have the same 
access to and voting rights in Chinese standards setting bodies as Chinese companies, 
and ensure that there is no “presumption of participation” in Chinese standards setting 
laws, rules or administrative regulations th at would allow the Chinese government to 
unfairly procure the intellectual property of foreign companies on non -market or royalty 
free terms.  Additionally, to the extent such mandatory and voluntary Chinese standards 
unnecessarily deviate from relevant and  effective international standards, as they often 
do, China potentially violates its commitments under Articles 2.2 and 2.4 of the WTO 
TBT Agreement  and Paragraphs E and F of the TBT Agreement Code of Good Practice, 
respectively.  
Examples of specific stand ards -related issues in China include:  
 The China National Information Security Standards Technical Committee 
(TC260)’s continued discussion of office equipment in formation security 
requirements . Development of these standards did not adhere to paragraphs D,  
L, N and O of the TBT Agreement Code of Good Practice;  
 CCC product safety standards, including GB 4943.1 -2011, which contains 
significant deviations from global standards . 
One particular concerning trend  USITO has observed in China’s standardization regi me is 
general lack of compliance with the TBT  Agreement  Code of Good Conduct, which 
among other things calls for a 60-day comment period and mandatory reply to all 
comments received by domestic and international stakeholders. China has 
demonstrate d its abi lity to provide for 60 -day comment periods in some circumstances, 
which reinforces our concerns that m any of China’s ICT standards had comment periods 
of 15 -30 days, hardly sufficient to facilitate translation and expert review of the 
standard. In addition , USITO has almost without exception never once received a 
written response to any formal comments submitted to the Chinese government.   
Chinese authorities should be encouraged to promote the use and adoption of 
voluntary, open, global  and industry -led s tandards, as well as  to promote active 
participation by Chinese organizations in global  standards setting bodies and initiatives.  
China remains focused on developing and maintaining unique Chinese standards that 
feature Chinese  technologies , rather than r elying on commercial demand to drive 
deployment. While understanding China’s desire to grow its ICT sector, we encourag e 
China ’s government to adopt technology  neutral poli cy and let the market select  
technology and standard s. 
We would like to reiterate several principles for the development of technical standards 
that we believe are important to robust trade and investment. We believe that  in 
general, standards should be voluntary and not mandated by government agencies. We 
also encourage  China  to adopt the multi -path approach to the development of 
international standards, rather than relying exclusively on the ISO, IEC , and ITU . World -USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   18 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 class standards are today developed by a variety of standards development 
organizations  and industry consortia , including  organizations that have achieved global 
prominence because of the international relevance and the broad range of participation 
in development of their standards. Examples include the Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the Internet E ngineering Task Force (IETF), and the 
Worldwide Web Consortium (W3C ). The WTO has outlined requirements for 
organizations that seek to be considered as developers of international or global 
standards , and we encourage China to recog nize the broader WTO def inition of 
“international standardization bodies or systems" contained in Annex 1 of the TBT  
Agreement , which includes any standardization body that is open to all WTO members 
and meets the criteria set forth in the Decision of the TBT Committee on Princip les for 
the Development of International Standards that is contained in Annex 4 to the Second 
Triennial Review of the Operation and Implementation of the Agreement on Technical 
Barriers to Trade. USITO also encourages China to follow the attributes of elig ibility 
derived from the WTO principles including, but not limited to, openness, consensus, 
balance, and transparency.  
Finally, while not a WTO requirement, we urge that foreign -owned enterprises be 
permitte d – and encouraged  – to participate in Chinese st andards -development efforts 
on an equal and non -discriminatory basis. The global practice  for the development of 
standards has been an open, interactive process, in which enterprises from around the 
world can openly  participate. The openness of these proce sses helps account for their 
undeniable commercial effectiveness and helps ensure that any national standard is not 
more trade restrictive than necessary. We believe that fair, open, and equal access to 
participation, including the right to vote, in standa rds development efforts by Chinese 
and non -Chinese enterprises alike will result in superior Chinese standards and superior 
Chinese proposals for consideration by global  standards bodies.  
C. CUSTOMS VALUATION  
As part of its WTO accession agreement, China agre ed to implement its obligations 
under the Agreement on Customs Valuation (GATT Article VII)  upon accession, without 
any transition period. The purpose of this agreement is to make certain that the 
customs value of imported goods for duty assessment purposes is determined in a 
“neutral and uniform manner” that avoids arbitrary or fictitious valuat ion. It is our 
experience that China  is deviating from these requirements in three notable areas:  
1. The General Administration of Customs (GAC) uses an out -dated and arbitrary 
pricing methodology for valuation purposes that does not take account of 
modern, c omplex supply chain models. In particular, customs authorities do not 
appear to understand transfer pricing , inbound and outbound bonded zone 
valuation, and customer rebate/sales discounts associated with today’s supply 
chain com plexity. This has resulted in customs challenges to modern pricing 
methodologies and a desire by officials to enforce unreasonable valuation 
adjustments, based on their sole acceptance of a customs declaration value that USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   19 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 is presumed to always become higher through the entire supply chain. For 
instance, it is well known that in some business situations the selling price will be 
reduced to offer a rebate or sales discount to customers. That price could be 
lower than the values declared in preceding supply chain steps, including the 
value declared on the inbound customs declaration at the time products are 
imported. Chinese customs authorities  should make concerted eff orts to 
understand the complexities and pricing mechanisms associated with modern 
supply chain models and accept transact ion value declared on the basis of these 
models.  
2. Customs in China is also using valuation databases for determining the value of 
goods and increasingly questioning the transaction value of imports. There are 
some situations in which Chinese customs uses a  “reference price” to ascertain 
customs value, a process that has caused transaction values declared by an 
importer to be rejected by customs officers because this value is lower than the 
Customs arbitrary and fictitious reference price. China customs offi cials should 
abandon the use of arbitrary and artificially created reference processes in 
ascertaining the transaction value of goods.  
3. The process for customs valuation determinations varies from port to port and is 
not transparent. This is a lack of willi ngness on the part of Chinese Customs 
officials to issue written binding agreements on valuation in many instances. Oral 
agreements are employed, but these agreements remain in effect only as long as 
that individual remains employed by Chinese Customs. The re should be uniform 
handling across all Chinese ports of entry, and all agreements should be written 
and available for all companies to view.  
D. CUSTOMS RELATED POLICY ISSUES  
Inconsistent, inefficient , and opaque customs rules and procedures are inconsistent  
with the direction of China’s WTO commitments to a trading regime that fosters 
harmonization, transparency and simplified customs formalities. Key issues are listed in 
detail below.  
1. Vague and Inconsistent Regulations :  Many existing Customs regulations la ck 
clarity and precision, and they are drafted and enforced in an inconsistent 
manner. For example, a regulation dealing with duty -exemption assets in China 
states that once a 5 -year customs supervision period expires, the duty -exempted 
asset will be de -bonded automatically. While this automatic expiration means 
there is not a need to contend with a formal customs de -bonding process, the 
regulation does not state whether bonded zones are covered. The result is that 
Customs officials in some localities requi re a company to deal with de -bonding 
formalities once the 5 -year period ends, while Customs officials in other 
locations permit automatic de -bonding. Customs rules, written at a high -level 
and therefore lack ing direction concerning operational details , fail to cover 
numerous import -related areas. For example, there is very little regulatory USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   20 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 guidance in current regulations on how to record, track, and reconcile high 
volume items placed in a PRC bonded zone for later consumption in China 
factory production.  
4. Resolution of Regulatory Issues :  It continues to be difficult to address or resolve 
regulatory issues with Chin ese c ustoms officials. The General Administration of 
Customs (GAC) maintains no systematic, repeatable, transparent , and 
sustainable system  to gather industry inputs, including but not limited to new 
business trends, business challenges, or supply chain problems. GAC also lacks a 
feedback mechanism to systematically respond to pressing industry  issues. 
Enterprises strive to communicate effect ively with GAC , but the process is 
laborious and conducive to unsatisfactory outcomes. GAC should establish a 
clear, formal process to ensure timely and substantive responses to importer 
issues along with a process that allows escalation of issues where di sputes arise. 
This should include GAC adoption of a systematic, repeatable, transparent , and 
sustainable structure to gather industry inputs (new industry trends, business 
challenges, supply chain problems) as well as a feedback mechanism for GAC to 
system atically respond to importer issues.  
5. Need for “24x7” Customs Clearance :  Many factories in China operate on a “24 x 
7 x 365” basis and need customs capacity that supports shipping and receiving 
operations at all times. Customs clearance still relies on ma nual procedures in 
China and is relatively slow compared to the other Sout heast Asian countries. 
Insufficient access to customs personnel by importing parties, due to limited 
customs working hours on weekdays and on weekends, significantly hampers 
efficien cy of supply chain management. Consequently, companies have borne 
additional costs due to goods languishing in a warehouse, as well as incurring 
customer dissatisfaction because of delayed delivery of goods. A lack of 
uniformity in c ustoms work schedules a nd practices across the country  
exacerbates  the problem , with some local authorities having extended hours of 
operation and others having more restricted operational schedules ( such as 
weekends). This inconsistent operating model significantly hampers the ability to 
provide predictable logistical services in the shipment and delivery of goods. 
Overall, a robust and efficient customs clearance capacity is an important aspect 
of an established supply chain , and the removal of administrative bottlenecks 
and pr ocedural delays would substantially increase China’s ability to ensure 
trade facilitation for all stakeholders.  
6. Customs Modernization :  In China, customs clearance still relies principally on 
submission and processing of a paper declaration. Some cities ar e starting to 
implement “e -Customs” solutions and paperless declaration pilots, but each city 
is implementing different solutions and different plans. China could very 
substantially increase the efficiency of its customs operations by establishing 
paperles s, efficient, and end -to-end paperless Customs solutions that are 
standardized across all regions.  USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   21 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 7. Bonded Zones : 
a. Efficiency:  Customs processes in a bonded zone in China continue to be 
inefficient. Many operations in China are located in bonded zone s alon g 
with  customers and suppliers. A big challenge in China is the bonded air 
transfer process. According to Chinese law, GAC must supervise any  
bonded air transfer between two bonded zones. There are four customs -
related organizations involved in the entire process at the following 
points:  (1) departure zone, (2) departure city airport, (3) arrival city 
airport, and (4) arrival or receiving zone. Based on the current standard 
bonded transfer process, it is required t hat three bonde d transfers  be 
completed  between these four c ustoms authorities . The process is very 
complex with long lead times, impacting supply chain efficiency. GAC 
should simplify the bonded air transfer process across all the regions in 
China to alleviate shipment delays and burdens.  
b. Compliance Requirement:  Many bureaucratic tracking and reconciliation 
requirements exist relative to bonded zones. This challenges a bonded 
zone company to track and reconcile everything, including high volume 
manufacturing inputs (even tiny items like a nut, bolt , or screw). GAC 
should streamline and simplify these requirements through risk 
management and management -by-account procedures for trusted 
entities such as companies with an “AA” or “A” status under China’s 
enterprise rating system.  
E. CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT AND TYPE APPROVAL  
Industry is encouraged by the August 2013 announcement by the State Council to 
broadly streamline administrative approval systems. In particular, the Guidelines to 
Promote Information Consumption and Boost Domestic Demand empha size the need to 
streamline administrative approval systems in the ICT industry  by “reduc[ing]  existing 
approval requirements, minimize record -keeping systems and remove non -
administrative approval and certification requireme nts. Promot[ing]  joint approval , one -
stop service, processing time limits for remaining administrative approval systems.”3 
There appears to be a clear recognition by the Chinese government  that reforms to the 
existing conformity assessment process for the ICT industry are necessary. In addition, 
we would note the recently implemented reforms to the China Compulsory Certification 
(CCC) scheme and look forward to further reforms and streamlining of China’s 
conformity assessment and type approval systems that appear to be underway. We are 
encouraged to see that China designated some non -Chinese labs to undertake CCC -
related testing in a recent supplementary designation of certification bod ies and lab s for 
                                                      
3 State Council of the PRC, “Guidelines to Promote Information Consumption and Boost Domesti c Demand” (Chinese:  国
务院关于促进信息消费扩大内需的若干意见 ), website: http://www.gov.cn/zwgk/2013 -08/14/content_2466856.htm   USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   22 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 CCC certification . We hope such opening s will continue to expand with a clear timeline 
and roadmap  that allows for additional non -Chinese labs to designated for CCC -related 
testing .  
However, as China continues to develop new regulations, it appears that the  current  
default conformity assessment requirements include mandatory third party cer tification, 
most always with in -country testing, even though such requirements may be more 
trade -restrictive than necessary. We believe that China would benefit from exploring 
and implementing a more open approach that considers alternative conformity 
asse ssment models that are based on the risk assessment of products.  
China and the United States are among the 54 Member Bodies  and 77 National 
Certification Bodies (NCBs) participating in the International Electrotechnical 
Commission’s (IEC’s) system for Conformity Testing and Certification of Electrical 
Equipment (IECEE CB Scheme). The CB Scheme is an essential vehicle to provide market 
access for products and eliminate redundant testing of products at multiple laboratories. 
There are both existing and de veloping programs within the IECEE that are aimed at 
improving data acceptance and harmonization of conformity assessment practices 
across countries. During recent years, China has engaged positively within the IECEE CB 
Scheme for product safety test repor t acceptance; however, laboratories in China today 
are not making the best use of these international programs , and China also continues 
to not fully accept manufacturing testing, as allowed under the CB Scheme.  
Overall, t he product testing and certificati on process in China is more burdensome than 
in other markets, which increases the costs of exporting products to China  and getting 
them to market in a timely manner . Under China’s Network Access License (NAL) , 
unnecessary  and undocumented  testing requireme nts lead to delayed time -to-market 
and cost increases. Despite JCCT commitments, there have not yet been significant 
improvements to the streamlining of the system, or reduction of time or cost to attain 
conformity assessment. Recent  mobile security regula tions also stand to add new 
requirements to the network access license NAL  process . USITO advocates for the NAL’s 
scope to be limited to basic testing requirements for network interoperability and 
functionality  and the elimination of test requirements that  support specific indigenous 
technologies from the NAL . 
Furthermore, MIIT’s lack of clear labe ling requirement rules for type approval is creating 
inconsistent application of labe ling at the provincial level. Although MIIT has told 
companies that labels ca n be affixed to packaging, some provincial government officials 
continue to require  companies to affix the label to the product. Given that NAL labels 
must be purchased from MIIT directly, this lack of certainty results in significant  re-
labeling  costs for  particular products. Written and transp arent labeling  requirements 
would  reduce the amount of re -labelling  required.  
China’s current certification requirements for telecommunications equipment conflict 
with its WTO obligations of limiting imported products to no more than one conformity 
assessment scheme and requiring the same mark for all products (Article 13.4(a) of 
China’s WTO Accession). China has three different licensing regimes —the Radio Type USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   23 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 Approval, the Network Access License, and the China Compulsory Certification. 
Therefore, for a given piece of equipment, it can cost between U.S.  $20,000 -30,000 to 
test for al l three licenses (NAL, RTA, CCC). MIIT indicates on its website that it processes 
more than  4,000 applications a year, which represents approximately $ 100 million in 
testing fees a year. It should also be noted that as smartphones and other devices 
evolve with new functionalities, the testing fees can increase for a particular device 
because these fees are dependent upon the number of functions on a particular device.  
Lastly, some of China’s certification programs require disclosure of unnecessary 
informati on, much of which is business confidential (e.g., source code and design 
information for telecom network products and product content and supplier lists for 
EHS/RoHS approvals). This is an increasing concern for foreign companies who are 
forced to provide sensitive information or forego market access.  
USITO appreciates the work of the U.S. government  in following up on China’s 201 1 
JCCT commitment to continue engagement with MIIT to address these concerns. In the 
meantime, USITO urges the Chinese governmen t to promote the fuller adoption of the 
IECEE CB Scheme  and streamline  its type approval process by :  
 Encouraging acceptance of CB Scheme test reports by national laboratories;  
 Joining most other countries in participation in the IECEE CB Scheme for 
Elect romagnetic Compatibility (EMC);  
 Reducing the number of tests required by the NAL to a minimum;  
 Clarifying to provincial governments that manufacturers have the discretion to 
meet the type approval labeling requirements for products by affixing the label 
to either the packaging or on the product;  
 Publishing all testing requirements in an accessible and transparent manner for 
industry in a consolidated location on the MIIT website, including all 
requirements for RTA and NAL tests;  
 Establishing a regular, public stakeholder consultation mechanism to review 
proposed new type approval testing requirements and procedures to enable an 
ongoing dialogue with stakeholders on what is working and what may need 
improvement and/or re -evaluation;  and  
 Negotiating and concluding a Mutual Recognition Agreement for testing and 
certification with the United States.  
Furthermore, new testing and factory audit requirements should also be announced 
with  a minimum 60 days ’ notice  to allow adequate time fo r industry to make the 
transition  to any new requirements , and all testing requirements and specifications 
should be published and maintained on the Internet in an easily accessible format .  
Finally, Chinese regulatory authorities should make sure that “co nformity assessment 
procedures are undertaken and completed as expeditiously as possible” (TBT Art. 5.2.1), 
“information requirements are limited to what is necessary to assess conformity”  (TBT Art. USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   24 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 5.2.3), and “ the confidentiality of information about pro ducts originating in the territories 
of other Members arising from or supplied in connection with such conformity 
assessment procedures is respected in the same way as for domestic products and in such 
a manner that legitimate commercial interests are prot ected” (TBT Art. 5.2.4).  
F. CYBER  SECURITY /INFORMATION SECURITY POLICIES  
China continues to implement a  number of cyber  security  and information security 
related areas in which China’s policies create challenges for USITO member companies, 
especially for commercial and non -sensitive government  sector market access for ICT 
products. This includes polices for product certification, encryption, and critical 
information infrastructure protection (CIIP).  China’s distrust of foreign technologies and 
governments  often gives rise to unilateral approaches and exclusionary policies to 
increase reliance on indigenous technology. This is exacerbated by unclear distinction in 
China between commercial and government information systems, and between 
information security and national security related concerns. Additionally, domestic 
stakeholders seeking to benefit from market opportunities that might arise at the 
expense of foreign competitors from security concerns that are manifested in 
discriminatory Chinese policies.  
Following are a number of specific policies and concerns that the U.S. ICT industry has 
about China’s policies in this area.  
1. Nation al Cyber S ecurity Review Regime :  The State Council Internet Information 
Office (SCIIO) recently confirmed in May of 2014 tha t the Chinese government 
will establish a “review mechanism which will review ICT products and services 
that may create risks to Chinese national security or “public interests.”  
According to SIIO:  “Critical information technology products and suppliers, w ith a 
focus on investigating the security and controllable aspects of products in order 
to prevent product suppliers from illegally controlling, disrupting, terminating 
users systems, or illegally collecting, storing, processing, and using user related 
information.  Products and services that don’t meet the related security 
requirements will not be able to be used within China.”   
According to USITO understanding the new review regime will indeed adopt the 
“Security Code of Conduct for ICT Suppliers” by TC2 60, China’s national 
information security review commission for defining key aspects of the review 
regime including scope.  According to the draft “code of conduct,” the scope of 
the review regime will be very broad to include the virtually commercial ICT 
products and or service:  “software and equipment having ac quisition, storage, 
processing, transmission, control, exchange and display functionality of data or 
information, including computer and auxiliary devices, network equipment, 
automatic control equip ment, operating system, database , application software 
and services, etc. ”  USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   25 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 We are concerned that the broad  and vague nature of the proposed Chinese 
national cyber  security review regime will have adverse negative effects not only 
on foreign investors in the China market, but also Chinese consumers who could 
be blocked from purchasing advanced ICT goods.  No other major economy has a 
similar review mechanism in place  that would govern the transaction of 
commercial ICT goods within the private sector market.   
2. Multi -Level Protection Scheme (“MLPS”) :  China continues gradual 
implementation of the MLPS regime for classification and protection of critical 
information infr astructure information (CII) systems, with restrictions on use of 
foreign security technology in the top three MLPS -ranked levels (of five). USITO 
advocates for removal of such restrictions as well as  – for ICT products sold into 
all MLPS levels  – mandatory product assurance testing requirements to unique 
Chinese standards, and enforcement of the 1999 commercial encryption 
regulations outside their normal and limited jurisdiction.  
a. Analysis done by USITO’s parent associations demonstrates that a wide  
swath of Chinese commercial infrastructure is now under the jurisdiction 
of MLPS. Based on an analysis of available market data, USITO parent 
association ITI estimates that MLPS likely covers 60 -70 percent, or $35.2 
billion -$41.0 billion, of China’s $58.6  billion total 2010 enterprise and 
public sector IT spending. This estimate is based on an analysis of the 
vertical industry sectors in the apparent scope of MLPS  – banking and 
finance; local and central government; insurance; health care; power 
distributi on; aviation and transportation; oil and gas; education; and 
news and media  – and their approximate percentage of the Chinese 
economy.  
b. MLPS is a technical mandate that has been under development for many 
years and is part of China’s overall national inform ation assurance 
strategy. In June 2007, China issued the Administrative Measures for the 
Multi -Level Protection of Information Security , a mandate that sets down 
guidelines to categorize information systems according to the extent of 
damage a breach in the  system could pose to social order, public interest, 
and national security. The mandate also provides detailed technical 
standards and certification requirements for products used in 
information systems , which are to be categorized from level 1 (least 
sens itive systems) to level 5 (extremely sensitive systems related to 
national security requiring specialized oversight and inspection).  
c. Each level comes with its own specific product and management 
requirements. For example, information security products in i nformation 
systems classified at level three and above are required to have core 
technology with independent IPR in China, undergo a national 
information assurance certification, and the product developers and 
manufacturers must be invested or owned by Chi nese citizens or legal USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   26 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 persons. In addition, encryption requirements in the Measures may 
include the mandatory use of Chinese encryption algorithms or 
divulgence of cryptographic source code. A myriad of information 
systems, such as those in banks and powe r utilities  (which have been 
regular customers of foreign suppliers of information security products) 
are classified at level three. Because of the onerous testing requirements 
involved in obtaining that classification (such as forced disclosure of 
source code), many foreign security products will likely be excluded from 
those “critical infrastructure” systems. Despite China agreeing at the 
2012 JCCT to engage in technical discussions with the U.S. government 
regarding market access barriers due to the MLPS  scheme, these talks 
have yet to begin.   
3. Commercial Encryption Regulations :  After years of ongoing revision, the Office 
of the State Commercial Cryptography Administration (OSCCA)  recently 
indicated to industry and government that revision of the 1999 Commercial 
Encryption Regulations  was likely to be completed next year . USITO continues to 
advocate for the full deregulation of commercial domestic and foreign -
developed encryption, including that commercial encryption not be classified as 
a state secret, a nd that companies not be required to obtain a license to import, 
develop, use, or sell commercial foreign -developed encryption products in China.  
China’s 1999 commercial encryption regulation deems all commercial encryption 
a “state secret” and generally p rohibits the use of foreign encryption products. In 
2000, as a result of widespread foreign government and industry opposition, the 
Chinese government clarified that foreign ICT products with encryption can be 
sold in China, through an exemption process, i f their “core function” is not 
encryption. Foreign encryption products themselves are still banned from the 
China market. Additionally, the State Cryptography Administration (SCA) requires 
companies to turn over source code and other proprietary informatio n for 
testing by state laboratories in order to gain market access for certain encryption 
products.  
4. ZUC Encryption Standard :  ZUC is China’s government -developed indigenous 
encryption algorithm created for usage in 4G LTE networks , and perhaps in other 
national communications networks . ZUC is the first encryption algorithm that 
China proactively brought to the international stan dards community —it was 
approved as an international voluntary standard by 3GPP in September of 2011. 
Although we welcome China’s  taking its standard through the international 
standardization process, China’s SCA has confirmed that implementation of the 
ZUC algorithm and related standards will be mandatory in the commercial 
market  – namely for all base -stations, mobile devices, and mobile management 
equipment (MME) that connects to a 4G network in China. This is outside of 
global norms as no other major country has mandated a specific algorithm for 
usage in the commercial telecom market  as a baseline for market access , and USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   27 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 represents  a significant expansion of the core -function test (see entry above) to 
general -use commercial ICT products. While we remained concerned about the 
mandate and lack of choice Chinese carriers have in implementing encryption 
standards, we do note that the Ch inese government backed away from 
implementing onerous  ZUC testing and certification requirements. Previous  
versions of SEMB’s encryption module draft testing specifications would have 
require d ZUC-compliant equipment to undergo an extensive testing proces s that 
includes a review of source code and other proprietary information. Industry had 
asked MIIT and SCA to respect its various commitments towards technology 
neutrality in the commercial market, and not engage in any additionally 
mandatory  encryption -related  testing that would force di sclosure of sensitive IP. 
We note that, according to the TBT  Agreement , members are  required to 
“specify technical regulations based on product requirements in terms of 
performance rather than design or descriptive characte ristics.” (TBT Art. 2.8).  We 
are glad to see MIIT embraced these principles in its final testing specifications  
that were entirely based on performance requirements , and that during the 
2013 JCCT, China confirmed that it would not require that any sensitiv e or 
proprietary business information be divulged during the certification of ICT 
products that support the ZUC encryption algorithm.   
5. Cloud Computing Security Standards:   With the increasing deployment of cloud 
computing services in China, including in the public sector, the Chinese 
government has begun to aggressively develop related technical security 
standards. With the China National Information Security Standardization  
Technical Committee TC260 as the lead, a number of problematic standards 
have been drafted such as Information Security Technology: Government 
Department Cloud Computing Service Provider Basic Security Requirements. 
These requirements advocate for the in -country hosting of cloud data, and usage 
of Chinese cloud providers, among other requirements . In July 2015, the 
Cyberspace Administration of China and TC260 released another set of cloud 
security standards and “Opinions” aimed at tightening management of cloud 
adoption within Party and government d epartments , once again requiring that 
data and information be stored within China and extending the MLPS into the 
cloud sector. The “Opinions” also call for the creation of a uniform cybersecurity 
review regime f or cloud computing services, with a focus on “ security and 
controllability ” of cloud services. USITO advocates for the Chinese government 
to take a balanced approach towards cloud computing security in China that 
respects the need for additional security m easures within the government realm, 
but also allows for the adoption of global norms and standards.   
6. China Compulsory Certification For Information Security (“C CCi”):  In 2007, 
China announced through a WTO TBT notification the development a new 
testing and certification framework under the China Compulsory Certification 
(CCC) program for 13 categories of information security products sold into the 
commercial market. For eign industry and the European Union, Japan and the USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   28 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 United States reacted very negatively to the initiative, as it would have 
unnecessarily disrupted global trade and potentially discriminated against 
foreign IT products. As a result, in 2012 China cut the  scope of CCCi regulations 
back to the government procurement market. Nonetheless, due to requirements 
for source code disclosure and product testing in government -affiliated 
laboratories, the framework has been virtually unworkable for foreign 
companies a nd foreign companies have not applied for the certification.  
 
V. NATIONAL TREATMENT  
A. GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT MEASURES FAVORING LOCAL CONTENT  
Government procurement in China is primarily under the regulation of two national 
laws: the Government Procurement Law and the Tender Law, and local government 
procurement measures. The Government Procurement Law has been amended in 
August 2014, and GPL Implementation Regulations  were  revised and released on 
January 2015.  
The GPL does not define domestic goods, projects a nd services.   Rather, it authorizes 
the State Council to determine the definition.   In the Implementation Regulations, 
“domestic goods” is defined as goods manufactured within the territory of China, and 
domestic manufacturing cost is  vaguely set  “above a certain percentage.” “Domestic 
projects and services” are defined to be projects and services provided by Chinese 
citizens, legal persons or other organizations. USITO advocates for an exemption from 
this regulation for ICT products due to their complex gl obal supply chain.   
B. PUBLIC PROCUREMENT  TIED TO DOMESTIC IP 
Indigenous innovation refers in general to a set of national and regional policies 
promoting development of local technology and IP, and more particularly to a specific 
set of policies that incenti vize public procurement of products with ‘indigenous’ IP. In 
2011, the MOF  and Ministry of Science and Technology  (MOST)  each repealed key 
indigenous innovation policies, which industry generally view ed as a positive 
development. However, while the Central  Government has reiterated China’s 
commitment to foreign investment and suspended publication of a national Indigenous 
Innovation Product Catalog ue during bi -lateral talks with the U nited States , some 
regional  governments continue to implement government p rocurement policies that 
favor products  developed with local IP, or even products with IP  from a particular 
province or municipality, over foreign ones.  USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   29 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 Transparent, merit -based, technology neutral, non -discriminatory and pro -competitive 
procurement ensure s that the government as a user of technology obtains the best 
goods and services for the best value .4 Limiting government procurement to 
indigenously developed products , whether defined by nationality of IP ownership, 
security and controllability, or any other factors, fails to appreciate the truly global and 
cross -border nature of innovation and product development, as well as the very 
substantial and critical contribut ions that multinational technology companies are 
making to China’s own capacity as a global innovation leader. USITO asks that  China fully 
implement its pro-competitive procurement policy decisions at all  levels of government, 
ensure that its procurement p olicies are consistent with GPA norms as reflected in prior 
JCCT commitments,  and promptly join the GPA on strong commercial terms.  
C. GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT  
While China’s trade partners have made considerable efforts to persuade China to join 
the WTO Agreeme nt on Government Procurement (GPA) before and after China’s WTO 
accession China has not yet become a party. China was accepted as an observer to the 
GPA on February 21, 2002.  USITO advocates clear and steady improvements in 
government procurement policy, b uilding toward accession to the GPA as soon as 
possible.  
USITO recommends the U.S. government continue engaging the Chinese government  in 
discussing the issue in the Strategic and Economic Dialogue (S&ED) and JCCT sessions. 
The U.S. ICT industry recommends that, based on the priorities below, U.S. government 
officials use the JCCT meeting to continue addressing the following concerns  with 
China’s revised offer : 
 An implementation date of 1 6 years after accession is unique amongst GPA 
signatories.  
 As for product coverage, the U.S. ICT industry strongly urges that the U.S. 
government pursue a negative list approach that assumes all products are 
covered, unless justified otherwise, and that the commitment by China includes 
a broad coverag e of services comparable to that provided by other Parties to the 
GPA.  
 The proposed thresholds are far above those of other signatories to the GPA, 
and lack a meaningful basis for implementation of China’s commitments.  
 It is essential that the coverage of entities be meaningful and effective. Some 
wholesale carve -outs lack justification and are unwarranted.  
                                                      
4 See, e.g., draft National Competition Policy Statement of the Government of India (July 28, 2012) (citing to an OECD 
survey which indicates that “ savings to public treasuries between 17 percent and 43 percent have been achieved in some 
developing countries through implementation of competitive procurement processes.”)  USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   30 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
  We urge that the coverage of the commitment be as comprehensive as possible 
at the central and sub -central government level . 
The U.S. ICT industry conti nues to urge the U.S. government to pursue a comprehensive 
approach whereby central government entities are included in the commitment 
predicated on the key underlying laws that establish the organization of the State 
Council, and that regulate personnel a ppointments. At minimum, the obligation should 
include any entity that is subject to the Government Procurement Law.5 Sub-central 
government entities should include (1) the governments of the Administrative Divisions 
(“Provinces”) (sheng); (2) the governme nts of the five autonomous regions (zizhiqu); (3) 
the governments of the four  municipalities6 (shi); and (4) any  “body governed by public 
law”7 enacted by these governments (i.e., subordinate entities of the  Sub central 
governments).  
It is essential that a meaningful Annex 3 (addressing state-owned enterprises (SOEs)) 
should be  included. Much remains to be done in this regard. Moreover, it must be noted 
that China’s WTO accession agreement included many provisions  that directly or 
indirectly addressed state-owned (and state-invested) enterprises. Specifically:  
 China agreed at that time that laws, regulations , and measures relating to the 
purchase by  state-owned (and state- invested) enterprises of goods and services 
for commercial sale,  production of goods or supply of services for commercial 
sale or for non -governmental purposes  will be subject to certain WTO rules, and 
that such laws, regulations , and measures would not be  considered to be laws, 
regulations , and measures relating to go vernment procurement.8 
 China also agreed that state-owned and state -invested enterprises would make 
purchases  and sales based solely on commercial considerations, such as price, 
quality, marketability , and availability; would be on non -discriminatory terms  
and conditions; and that the government  would not influence the commercial 
decisions of state-owned or state -invested enterprises.9 
D. TRANSPARENCY  
                                                      
5 Article II of government procurement law states  that the following entities are subject to the Government  Procurement 
Law: "Government Procurement" refers to the purchasing activities conducted with fiscal  funds by government. 
departments , institutions an d public organizations at all levels, where the goods,  construction and services concerned are 
in the centralized procurement catalogue complied in accordance  with law or the value of the goods, construction or 
services exceeds the respect ive prescribed pr ocurement  thresholds.  
6 The governments of the 4 municipalities are considered “provincial -level administrative units under the  management of 
the Central Government,” and approved by the Chinese National People’s Congress. These  cities are  subject to the l aws 
and administration of the State Council.  
7 Any “body governed by public law” enacted by these governments is a body:  
-- Established for the specific purpose of meeting needs in the general interest, and not having an industrial or  comm ercial 
character,  and -- Having legal personality, and  -- Financed, for the most part, by the Provincial, Autonomous or Municipal 
authorities, governed by public  law, or subject to management supervision by those bodies, or having an administrative, 
manage rial or  supervisory board, more than half of whose members are appointed by Provincial, Autonomous or 
Municipal  authorities or by other bodies governed by public law . 
8 See Paragraph 47 of the REPORT OF THE WORKING PARTY ON THE ACCESSION OF CHINA,  WT/ACC/C HN/49 , 1 
October 2001.  
9 See Paragraph 46 of the REPORT OF THE WORKING PARTY ON THE ACCESSION OF CHINA.  USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   31 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 USITO note s that the Chinese government took some positive steps in 2015 to improve 
the information transparency of government procurement . It has been hoped that this 
step would act  as a catalyst to give individuals and organizations the legal right to 
request information from the  government in an orderly manner. It is important for the 
U.S. government  to continue pressing  China to meet its WTO and JCCT commitments on 
government transparency, including those relating to the  formulation of industry 
policies.  
Specifically, the long overdue Telecom Law has yet to be completed and the drafting 
process is  opaque. The same lack of transparency  affects regulations , which  continue to 
be issued without prior public discussion, a most  fundamental requirement of a 
transparent administration. Since regulations directly affect the  welfare and 
opportunities of industry  participants and end -users, these groups have a direct  
interest —and expertise —to contribute to developing sound regulation. Transparent  
opportunities to participate in China’s rulemaking process are necessary  for industry  to 
have  confiden ce in stable inve stment opportun ities.  
The China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) information security guiding opinions 
have also raised serious concerns about transparency. In 2015, the CBRC first issued and 
then suspended their guiding opinions, all without making ke y documents available to 
the public or open for discussion. In the 2015 JCCT, China made a commitment to 
consult with the United States on generally applicable ICT regulations in the commercial 
banking sector, vowing to draft  regulati ons in a transparent m anner that provides 
meaningful opportunity for foreign and domestic input, and to develop banking ICT 
regulations that are  non-discriminatory and do not impose nationality -based conditions 
or restrictions on the purchase, sale, or use of such products by c ommercial 
enterprises.   That said, the manner in which the CBRC has sought foreign industry input 
– through a last -minute, opaque meeting that was only open to select companies – 
should raise concerns about whether China is actually committed to a more tra nsparent 
policy development process.   
E. ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY  REGULATIONS AND  STANDARDS  
Over the past few years, USITO has provide d feedback  to the National Development and 
Reform Commission (NDRC), the Ministry of Environmental Protection (MEP), the MIIT , 
the Certification and Accreditation Administration  (CNCA) , and other Chinese ministries 
and agencies on a number of issues including environmental regulations, product 
energy efficiency standards , as well as eco-design related products standards.  Below are 
some overarching principles that we recommend to the Chinese government in this 
space:  
 Regulations should be open, transparent, non -discriminatory , and based on 
sound technological specifications and market statistics.  
 Partnerships between governments and industry should be encouraged to 
develop and make more readily available t he benefits of new technologies.  USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   32 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
  When China considers a substance restri ction regulation or manufacturing 
process replacement , it should  consider existing international standards and 
base development of such regulation on life cycle environmental impact analyses .  
 The high tech industry encourages industry consultations at eac h stage of 
regulation development to achieve consistency and transparency.  
The following is a list of  key regulatory areas involving issues of concern for USITO, its 
parent associations and me mber companies.  
1. RoHS : Industry appreciates the openness of MIIT officials in their regular 
communication with industry on the implementation and development of the 
China RoHS program.    
In June 2015 , MIIT released a revised  Electronic and Electrical Products Pollution 
Controlling Management Measures  (China RoHS  II) for public comment. While 
USITO greatly appreciates the fact that the policy was opened for public 
comment, as well as the willingness of relevant MIIT officials to share 
information and offer their rationale , the policy’s eventual implementation is 
expected to cause difficult challenges for foreign industry.  
USITO highly recommends the  adoption a self -declaration of compliance (SDOC) 
approach in China  RoHS II. We advocate for China ’s elimination from its RoH S 
program any requirements for disclosure of proprietary information, including 
suppliers and material composition of ICT products . 
The state-promoted  voluntary certification program by MIIT and CNCA , which  
was implemented on November 1, 2011, was billed  as a means to promote 
awareness of RoHS issues. The r ules require companies to  use only  authorized 
Chinese testing facilities , which in turn require disclosure of  proprietary 
information in order to obtain RoHS certification. CNCA and MIIT have jointly 
released a list of China RoHS accreditation  institutions, including CQC, CESI and 
Jianheng Agency, as well as a list of accredited testing laboratorie s. The rules also 
require factory inspections. Industry is continuing to work with the U.S. 
government  and Chi nese authorities to discuss these concerns and their 
implications for trade and market access. The fact that this certification program 
currently is voluntary does not reduce its significance, as Chinese officials have 
ways through government procurement pressure , Waste Electrical and 
Electronic Equipment ( WEEE ) fee reduction , and otherwise to make such 
programs de facto  mandatory. USITO  emphasizes the need for continued 
industry -government dialogue and collaboration.  USITO also encourages China's 
inclusion of internationally accredited testing facilities in and outside of China as 
authorized RoHS testing facilities . 
WEEE : China’s Regulation on WEEE is a national E -waste collection and recycling 
regime. The “Administra tive Regulation on Recycling and Treatment of Waste 
Electrical Appliances” entered into effect January 1, 2011 , and a new, expanded 
product catalogue was issued in February 2015 . The regulation contains USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   33 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 provisions that may provide WEEE fee reduction for th e RoHS voluntary 
certification, and therefore promotes the troublesome certification over other 
RoHS conformity models. Second, under a the current  catalogue of products 
subject to China WEEE requirements, numerous  categories of products are 
subject to man datory recycling , with the possibility of further expansion in the 
future. A ccording to the recycling data released by MEP, hundreds of millions 
dollar fee paid by USITO members have been paid to qualified recyclers of used 
refrigerators, washing machines,  televisions, and air conditioners. By July 2013, 
there is no data available on recycled used computers.  
Currently, USITO is concerned about :  
 Lack  of a dedicated computer WEEE fund despite computer 
manufacturers’ full support of the fee collection activit ies. 
 Further expansion of mandatory WEEE  product catalogue without a 
thorough review of the phase I implementation of China WEEE regulation 
and a science -based evaluation of recycling models  for each product 
category . 
We recommend the Chinese government : 
 Restructure the China WEEE fund to ensure fees collected from each 
product category are dedicated to recycling  of used  products  that fall into 
such category . 
 Complete a review of the China WEEE regulation implementation for the 
first batch of five product categories  and solve key implementation 
problems before catalogue expansion . 
2. Energy Efficiency : China’s energy efficiency programs present a number of 
challenges to foreign companies, including onerous compliance requirements, 
extremely tight timeframe s for compliance , and more importantly potential 
inconsistency with globally adopted technical standards in some cases . 
Energy conservation has become a priority for China with the central 
government seeking ways to make China an "energy -saving" society. For t he ICT 
sector, China has finished or is revising the standard s for printers /copiers, 
computers, and monitor s. Other Minimum Energy Performance Standards (MEPS)  
the China National Institute of Standardization ( CNIS ) is planning to develop 
include data cente rs and servers.  The increased regulatory activity in this sector 
can raise significant issues for foreign ICT companies .  
We recommend the following overarching standards development principles in 
the area of Chinese MEPS:  
 Quality Data Collection:  analysi s of product energy performance data  
should be based on the full range of products and technologies that are USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   34 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 currently available to customers in the market place, taking into 
consideration future market trend s. 
 Scientific Calculation Model:  standard draft ers should evaluate product 
energy consumption via the scientific calculation models. A technically 
sound approach is fundamentally important to the MEPS development.  
 Global Alignment:  Chinese MEPS should be in alignment with globally 
adopted standards, s uch as the Energy Star Program technical 
requirements, including exemptions. ICT companies are deeply invested 
in this set of technical  specifications . Any deviation from the global norm 
would unnecessarily place onerous burden on the manufacturers . 
3. Green Procurement, Low Carbon Assessment, and Other Sustainability Related 
Policy Issues : USITO  recognizes the Chinese government’s role in promoting 
environmentally friendly products. We fully support China’s goal of becoming a 
leader in green procurement and other sustainability -related realms. We provide 
the following industry recommendations to the Chinese government:  
 Green Procurement:  Work closely with industry stakeholders to stay 
updated on key green procurement standards development, i.e. IEEE 
1680 series . 
 Low Carbon Assessment:  Fully assess the available carbon emission 
evaluation technic al tools in the market and consider consolidat ion of 
existing low carbon -related standards, voluntary certifications, and eco -
labelling regime before launching any new low -carbon certification . 
 Supply Chain Sustainability:  Adopt a science -based approach in 
considering phasing out manufacturing process es that may generate 
perceived environmental impact s. Open a dialogue  on ICT sector 
environmentally -sound practices.  
 
VI. COMMUNICATIONS & INFORMATION SERVICES  
A. IMPEDIMENTS TO MARKET ACCESS  
1. Proposed Broad Expansio n of Telecom Services Regulations : In the past year, 
there  does not appear to have been any concrete action to adopt the draft  
revisions to the  Catalogue of Telecommunication Service Categories  (Telecom 
Services Catalogue ) and the draft Administrative Meas ures for the Trial 
Operation of New Types of Telecommunications Businesses  (Trial Operations 
Measure) by MIIT . However, we remain deeply concerned with the draft policies 
due to the potentially significant setback  they present  in the liberalization of 
China’s telecom market . While we applaud the efforts of MIIT to address the USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   35 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 dramatic changes in the ICT sector, the draft revisions to the Catalogue and the 
draft Measure will provide MIIT with a greatly expanded level of regulato ry 
oversight while creating  new market access barriers and impos ing new 
investment restrictions. Furthermore, increasing restrictions on the flow of data 
over the Internet are impeding the ability of companies from all sectors of the 
economy to operate and  serve their customers.  Surveys of foreign companies 
operating in China have demonstrated that over 80% of companies find China’s 
Internet restrictions to be harming their business. China’s Internet controls run 
counter to its goals of developing e -commer ce and a broader Internet -enabled 
economy that it announced in its Internet Plus strategy earlier this year.  
The draft revisions to the Telecom Services Catalogue  and draft Trial Operations 
Measure do  not appear to be  consistent with China’s WTO GATS commi tments. 
These measures would restrict the ability of foreign service suppliers to acquire 
licenses and furthermore, demonstrate a bias in favor of domestic over foreign 
license applicants, which at a minimum, are in tension with China’s WTO 
commitments on domestic regulation, market access, and national treatment.   
Most troubling is that the draft revisions to the Telecom Services Catalogue and 
the draft Trial Operations Measure broaden the licensing scheme to new 
categories of ICT services and increase th e level of control for certain services 
that are already subject to licensing requirements. Contributing to these 
concerns is that the draft revisions to the Catalogue and the draft Measures 
incorrectly  classify a wide range of ICT technologies and service s as telecom 
service s, when in fact they are computer or business services that utilize  the 
public telecom  network as a method of delivery. We have identified four initial 
areas of concern with regard to China’s WTO commitments:  
 Licensing Procedures As Bar riers to Market Access :  China committed to 
not use its licensing procedures and conditions as a barrier to market 
access or in a manner more trade restrictive than necessary, but  the draft 
revisions to the Catalogue  and the draft  Measure would subject a b road 
set of services to cumbersome, unreasonable, and unnecessary licensing 
restrictions . 
 Not Respecting “Acquired Rights” :  China committed to ensure that 
foreign service suppliers that enjoyed certain rights prior to China’s 
accession to the WTO would ha ve these rights preserve d after China’s 
accession, but  the draft revisions to the Catalogue and the draft  Measure 
alter  such rights insofar as the draft revisions to the Catalogue  and the 
related licensing regulations impose new conditions on 
telecommunications service suppliers with longstanding business in China . 
 Discrimination :  China has committed to afford foreign 
telecommunications service suppliers treatment not less favorab le than 
“like” d omestic service suppliers, but the draft revisions to the Catalogue USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   36 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 and draft Measure effectively prohibit  or, at the very least, restrict the 
availability of telecommunications services licenses to foreign -invested 
telecommunication enterp rise suppliers .  
 Denial of Market Access :  China has committed to refrain from impeding 
market access to foreign suppliers of computer and related services, but  
China’s domestic classification notwithstanding, certain computer and 
related services such as cloud computing are arguably so impeded.  
As mentioned previously, some services are inappropriately redefined under the 
draft revisions to the Telecom Services Catalogue , which would impose a variety 
of new restrictions on market access ( e.g. through equit y caps, joint venture 
requirements, and minimum capitalization  requirements ) for the provision of 
services that are improperly considered telecom services. It is well settled in 
WTO jurisprudence that a service can only fall under a sector or sub -sector an d 
cannot fall under two sectors or two sub -sectors.10 Below is a preliminary list of 
services  in the draft revisions to the Telecom Services Catalogue that we have 
found to be inconsistent with established WTO jurisprudence:  
 Cloud -based computing is imprope rly identified in category B1, B21, and 
B25 as various different types of telecommunication services.  Yet while 
cloud computing services may use telecommunications networks and 
services, they are supplying computer related services (CRS).  
 E-Commerce is im properly identified in category B21 as an Online Data 
Processing Service, when it should remain under China’s existing WTO 
Service Schedule Category 4.E or Distribution Services - Wholesale or 
retail trade services away from a fixed location. Under this ca tegory, 
there are no limitations on foreign investors.  
 Audio, video, and application software is improperly identified in 
category B25 as an information service when it should remain under 
China’s existing WTO Service Schedule Category 2.D, or Audio/Visua l 
Services. Under this category, there are no limitations on the percentage 
of equity that a foreign service supplier may hold in a joint venture.  
Such improper identification of services in the draft revisions to the Telecom 
Services Catalogue , read toget her with existing restrictions on foreign 
investment in value -added telecom services, would impose more stringent 
limitations on a wide range of business services, which appears to be 
inconsistent with China’s WTO accession commitments under its Service 
Schedule.  The draft catalogue sweeps a number of new services, such as cloud 
computing, into the telecommunications services licensing regime and subject s 
                                                      
 
 USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   37 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 those services to equity caps and joint venture and capitalization requirements. 
USITO recommends that China remove these restrictions in accordance with 
international norms, including eliminating equity caps for foreign companies.  
The ICT industry continues to be a dynamic and innovative industry in China and 
around the world. The process of revising the T elecom Services Catalogue  and 
drafting the Trial Operations Measure should be used as an opportunity to 
further enhance the ICT ecosystem in China by reducing barriers to entry in basic 
services, VAS, and services that utilize the Intern et (i.e. over the t op services), 
rather than create additional impediments to innovation and restrictions to 
access to these important services to Chinese customers, which will ultimately 
hinder economic growth. USITO urges China to re -evaluate the draft revisions to 
the Tel ecom Services Catalogue and the draft Trial Operations Measure in light 
of the apparent inconsistencies with China’s GATS commitments and broader 
WTO commitments.  In addition, these measures will make it harder for China to 
develop its ICT market because l icensing restrictions create a higher bar for 
market entry for all providers, domestic and foreign, which is in direct 
contradiction with China’s Internet Plus strategy.  
 
2. Existing Challenges with China’s Communications & Information Services 
Regulations : While we continue to have concerns with a number of Chinese 
policies with respect to Communications Services, we have been encouraged by 
the Chinese government’s stated intent  to broadly implement market -oriented 
reforms as announced at the 3rd Plenum of t he 18th Communist Party of China 
Central Committee in November 2013.  The high -level policy direction is now 
being manifested through  incremental steps that are reflected in the  draft 
amendments to the Radio Regulation of the People’s Republic of China  (Radio 
Regulation ), the Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone (SFTZ), and the implementation 
of the Virtual Mobile Network Pilot Project.   
The draft amendments to the Radio Regulation  represent a n update to an 
important set of regulations for the telecom sector, and USITO was  pleased to 
have the opportunity to provide comments to the initial draft and would 
encourage the Chinese government to use an iterative process with additional 
comment periods prior to finalizing the amended Radio Regulation .  Done right, 
the R adio Regulation has the potential to increase the influence of  market forces 
through auctions for the allocation of spectrum in the future.    
While the SFTZ does offer some benefit to foreign investors  in the ICT sector , the 
scope of market liberalization is narrow, which limits the commercial benefits  for 
foreign investors .  USITO  would urge the Chinese government to continue to 
advance the range of ICT market reforms in the SFTZ, including further increases 
in FDI limits for servi ces delivered over the In ternet and the removal of FDI 
restrictions on data centers in the SFTZ , among other actions .     USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   38 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 The implementation of the Mobile Communication Resale Business Pilot Plan  in 
2014 is a welcomed development as it will encourage competition and 
innovation in China’s domestic mobile telephone market.  However, in order to 
ensure adequate competition and avoid national treatment issues, we 
recommend that the Pilot Plan be opened to participation by foreign companies.  
China limits foreign direct investment in tel ecommunications to 49 percent for 
basic services and 50 percent for value -added services (VAS). A further 
problematic restriction is the requirement that foreign telecom service providers 
may enter into a joint venture only with one of the  three  existing state-owned 
enterprise telecom providers  for Basic Services . Market entry opportunities for 
U.S. telecommunications providers in China are also limited by several additional 
factors, including an overly narrow definition of VAS for value added network 
service licensing that is not consistent with generally accepted international 
practices.  
The p rotection of the rights of VAS providers in China ’s market is insufficient . 
First, it is critical for VAS providers to have access to basic telecommunications 
networ k elements on reasonable terms and on a non -discriminatory basis . In 
light of the limited competition in China’s market and the fact that its three 
principle carriers are state -owned, the Chinese government has an important 
responsibility to ensure adheren ce to the principles laid out in the GATS Annex 
on Telecommunications .  
Second, it is critical that MIIT interpret the definition of VAS in a manner that is 
consistent with China’s explicit WTO commitment and widely accepted 
international standards. The de finition within China’s commitment includes 
several tests of what qualifies as a VAS. Whereas some of the alternative tests 
are specific services ( e.g., electronic mail, voice mail, electronic data 
interchange ), other of the alternative tests are functiona lities that can exist in a 
variety of innovative services ( e.g., code and protocol conversion, on -line 
information and data base retrieval, on -line information and/or data processing). 
The inclusion of these functionality tests in the China commitment on V AS is 
consistent with the VAS definitions applied internationally, and China should 
follow through to interpret their definition in accordance with international 
standards and expectations.  
In addition to encouraging a more expansive licensing approach to  VAS in China, 
the U.S. government  should consider encouraging China to replace the current 
conservatively applied vertical service classification guidelines ( i.e., basic/value -
added) with more objective and transparent guidelines for Type I (facilities -
based) and Type II (non -facilities based) licenses in order to accelerate service 
provider market entry. This approach would provide certainty to investors by 
permitting the provision of any non -facilities based service on the same terms 
and conditions as VA S, thus allowing companies to innovate and provide services 
as technology evolves.  USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   39 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 China's unreasonably high capitalization requirement for basic 
telecommunications services has further greatly limited market access. Basic 
services licenses are subject to  a U.S. $163 million joint venture capitalization 
requirement, which is 100 times larger than the joint venture capital 
requirement for China’s VAS licensees, and comprises an excessively 
burdensome restriction that violates Article VI of the GATS. A Foreign Service 
provider otherwise meeting the licensing qualifications is unlikely to allocate 
such capital to a new and risky enterprise, and a Chinese joint venture partner is 
unlikely to divert this capital from its core business. China has already 
establis hed a precedent for lowering its foreign joint venture capitalization 
thresholds in other sectors, including insurance and trading companies, and it 
should now remove this barrier to market access in the telecom sector.  
Furthermore, China has not implement ed its WTO Reference Paper commitment 
to establish an independent regulator. The Chinese government still owns and 
controls all major operators in the telecommunications industry, and the MIIT 
still regulates the sector. USITO encourages the U.S. governmen t to place a high 
priority on working with China to establish a regulatory body that is separate 
from, and not accountable to, any basic telecoms supplier, and that is capable of 
issuing impartial telecom decisions and rules. Specifically, it is important that the 
regulatory body adopts the following:  
 Transparent procedures for drafting, finalizing, implementing , and 
applying regulations and decisions;  
 Appropriate measures, consistent with the WTO Reference Paper to 
prevent dominant suppliers from engagin g in, or continuing, 
anticompetitive practices;  
 A defined procedure – as it has done for interconnection – to resolve 
efficiently and fairly public telecom suppliers’ commercial disputes over 
their agreements;  
 An independent and objective process for adm inistrative reconsideration 
of its decisions; and  
 Appropriate procedures and authority to enforce China’s WTO telecom 
commitments, such as the ability to impose fines, order injunctive relief, 
and modify, suspend, or revoke a license.  
USITO also encourages the U.S. government  to continue to urge  China to provide 
reasonable notice and the opportunity for public comment on proposed 
regulations.  
The above restrictions directly constrain m eaningful competition from foreign 
part icipants . Thi s holds  back service innovation and reliability from reaching 
world -class levels. In turn, business customers cannot obtain the value -added 
services they need to run efficient companies. Ultimately, this undermines USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   40 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 China’s information and communications te chnology policy goals and deprives 
Chinese consumers of access to new innovative technologies and of a broader 
choice of telecommunications services.  
One example is that China’s policies restrict the use of VoIP to closed user groups. 
China should allow al l VoIP providers to offer services that connect to the PSTN 
on an unlicensed basis and eliminate joint venture requirements that apply to 
non-Chinese companies who wish to offer VoIP services in China.  
International companies seek reasonable terms of comp etition to enter China’s 
market. There is significant interest among foreign carriers and value -added 
service providers in China. The dearth of companies applying for foreign invested 
telecom enterprise (FITE) licences is not due to a lack of interest in t he market , 
but to  the unfavorable terms of entry that currently characterize s the relevant 
regulations.  
In addition to the challenges listed above, t he following critical changes would 
help stimulate investment and  competition in China’s value -added teleco m 
services market:  
 The VAS Catalogue should affirm protections for international 
connectivity rights and commitments on the cross -border flow of data . 
 The Catalogue should have clear definitions so as to leave no ambiguity 
over the types of services requir ing a VAS license . 
 We recommend classifying basic services as the operation of basic 
network transmission  and access facilities only, with all other services 
being value -added. This is a common classification scheme internationally.  
 A regime should be intr oduced giving licensed VAS  providers reasonable 
and non -discriminatory wholesale pricing access to network facilities and 
services. This regime would ensure  that VAS providers have access to the 
basic network facilities they need  at pricing levels that ena ble them to be 
commercially viable.  
 Since the most recent version of the draft Telecom Law was released for 
public comment in 2009we recommend China re -release the law for 
comment so that it can reflect changes in the market and technology . 
 
3. Revisions to PRC Internet Information Services Administrative Measures : On 
June 6, 2012 MIIT and the State Council Internet Information  Office (SCIIO) 
released for comment a draft revised version of China's Internet Information 
Services Administrative Mea sure which were last updated in the year 2000. 
These are critically important rules for any company in the China market that 
provides "internet information services" to Chinese customers over the public 
Internet.  The proposed revisions  clarify internet regulatory rol es and USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   41 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 responsibilities of different government agencies, continue to classify internet 
services as a telecom -value added service, and also contain numerous 
requirements and provisions for national security lawful access, data retention, 
data privacy, cont ent filtering, and real -name ID registration requirements 
(which become for the first time mandatory for all internet service providers).  
USITO believes that while Internet regulation may be necessary for societal 
stability, country -specific regulation re lating to the creation, release, and 
transmission of certain types of content can constitute trade barriers for global 
Internet services companies. In addition, the Internet is global in nature. As such, 
country -specific Internet industry regulations, incl uding content management 
and regulation of emerging Internet services categories such as micro -blogs and 
online forums, lead to fragmentation and balkanization of the global Internet. 
More specifically, the draft revised Measure would hold telecom and othe r 
Internet service providers liable for all content passing through their respective 
networks and their products. China’s actions in the area of Internet policy and 
regulation may influence other governments to adopt heavy -handed policies 
that ultimately s tunt the growth of the Internet and innovative capacity of ISPs 
and ICPs to contribute to the growth of cyberspace. We strongly believe that a 
global, borderless, and industry -centered approach is the only way to effectively 
manage the growth of the Intern et while minimizing burdens that may stunt its 
development.  
B. TECHNOLOGY NEUTRALITY VS . MANDATED STANDARDS  
Finally, we continue to urge the Chinese government to subscribe to the principle of 
technology neutrality on the part of the regulator. Technology ne utrality is a key 
principle for regulated sectors like telecommunications. Markets and innovation benefit 
most when ICT manufacturers and suppliers engage in demand -driven competition, 
standards are openly and competitively developed, and governments do no t interfere to 
choose technology winners and losers.  
In recent years, China  has routinely favor ed domestic standards and technology over 
international standards and technology. In 2009, after the issuance of 3G spectrum, the 
Chinese government, through it s agencies, research institutions, and state-owned 
enterprise s, promoted and supported its own 3G mobile phone standards, TDSCDMA.  
Shortly thereafter, the Chinese version of WiFi  – that is,  WAPI  – was mandated on all 
mobile devices through China’s type ap proval process. In addition , USITO is concerned 
about China’s development of the Enhanced Ultra -High Throughput (EUHT) standard , 
and required use of the domestically developed ZUC encryption algorithm . Most 
recently, MIIT issued 4G licenses to telecom serv ices providers for the Chinese 
originated TD -LTE technology in December 2013, while delaying the issuance of 4G trial 
licenses for FDD -LTE to June 2013 for the purposes of testing compatibility between the 
two 4G technologies and limiting the geographic sc ope of the FD -LTE licenses. USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   42 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 Technology neutral policies will help ensure that one technology does not have an 
unfair advantage over another  in China’s market .  
We appreciate this opportunity to provide our comments and look forward to working 
with the  U.S. and Chinese governments on addressing the issues set out herein.  
  USITO  – China’s WTO Compliance 2015 USTR Filing   43 
Submitted  Thursday, 24 September 15  
 
 
 APPENDIX : USITO  INTRODUCTION  
Since its founding in late 1994, the U.S. Information Technology Office (USITO) has 
grown to become the leading policy -centered independent NGO focused on  the ICT 
industry in China. USITO  acts as the joint office in China of several U.S. -based trade 
associations repre senting the high -tech industry. USITO also accepts corporate 
memberships from those U.S. companies in the information technologies industry th at 
seek direct representation. Currently, USITO has about 45 corporate members.  
USITO monitors and expresses support for legislation conducive to U.S. exports and 
investment and promotes further opening of China’s telecommunications and 
information technol ogy markets. The organization does research and writing on issues 
of cross -cutting interest to U.S. companies involved in China’s telecommunications and 
high -tech sectors. USITO also assists its parent organizations with trade shows, 
delegations, meetings,  and other China -connected events.  
USITO comprises a consortium of four  U.S. industry associations: the Information 
Technology Industry  Council (ITI), the Software &  Information Industry Association (SIIA), 
the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA),  and the Telecommunications Industry 
Association (TIA).  
• The Information Technology Industry Council (ITI) is the premier group of the nation's 
leading high -tech companies and widely recognized as the tech industry's most effective 
lobbying organization in Wa shington, in various foreign capitals, and the WTO.  
• The Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA), being one of the leading hi -tech 
associations in America, represents over 85% of the American semiconductor industry 
and represents their interests both at home and abroad.  
• The Software & Information Industry Association (SIIA) is the principal trade 
association of the software and digital content industry representing more than 500 
software publishers, developers, and service providers from around the worl d. 
• The Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA) is the leading U.S. non -profit trade 
association serving the communications and information technology industry. TIA 
provides a market -focused forum for its 500 member companies, which manufacture or 
supply the products and services used in global communications.  
